# Detecting the Political Bias in News Articles and Similarity using Word Embeddings in American Journalism

Political polarity is on the rise in the world and machine learning tasks are adapting to the same. No longer is it sufficient to simply classify something as positive or negative, for a subject can be polarly opposite like positive or negative, but at the same time, can be switched entirely depending on the perspective. This is why the study of political bias makes up for a very interesting study since the multi-classification task of determining the alignment of a paper is a different take as to the usual understanding of sentiment analysis.

Sentiment analysis in general is a natural language processing technique that helps to contextualize whether the natural text has any sort of bias to it. For the purposes of this paper, this polarity will be more aligned to whether a given news article in question is left-leaning, right-leaning or centrist. The outcome is doing so is to gain a knowledge of reporting in the USA as to see whether press organizations are truly neutral in their reporting and exactly how severe is the bias when it comes to particular words along with the other words they are naturally associated with.

For the crux of this study, the proposed model will be utilizing three unsupervised document modelling algorithm that utilize document embeddings using paragraph vectors after utilizing Latent Dirichlet Allocation for fuzzy clustering. All three of these models will be used to make a prediction and while their accuracies will be evaluated separately, these three models will be combined towards a hard voting ensemble classifier so that a better classification score can be obtained and to reduce doubts since subjectivity is a large problem when dealing with natural text and especially, articles. 

***A. K. Sinha, S. S. Kumar Singh, and S. Sai, ‘Detecting the Political Bias in News Articles and Similarity Using Word Embeddings in American Journalism’, in 2023 International Conference on Computational Intelligence for Information, Security and Communication Applications (CIISCA), Bengaluru, India: IEEE, Jun. 2023, pp. 121–125. doi: 10.1109/CIISCA59740.2023.00033.***
